---
layout: default
title: Obaida Research and Publications
---

<div id ="research">

<p>
 <h2> Selected Publications</h2>
  <ol>
      <li> [CP02] Kishwar Ahmed, <b>Mohammad Obaida</b>, Jason Liu, Stephan Eidenbenz, Nandakishore Santhi, Guillaume Chapuis, An Integrated Interconnection Network Model for Large-Scale Performance Prediction, Proceedings of the 2016 annual ACM Conference on SIGSIM Principles of Advanced Discrete Simulation, pp 177-187, ACM SIGSIM PADS, May 15, 2016.
      </li>
      <li> [CP01] Jason Liu, <b>Mohammad Abu Obaida</b>, Fernando Dos Santos, Toward PrimoGENI Constellation for Distributed At-Scale Hybrid Network Test, 2014 Third GENI Research and Educational Experiment Workshop (GREE). March 19, 2016. 
      </li>
      <li> [Jnl01] <b>Mohammad Abu Obaida</b>, Md. Sanaullah Miah and Md. Abu Horaira, Random Early Discard (RED-AQM) Performance Analysis in Terms of TCP Variants and Network Parameters: Instability in High-Bandwidth-Delay Network. International Journal of Computer Applications 27(8):40-44, August 2011.
      </li>
      <li> [Jnl04] <b>Mohammad Abu Obaida</b>, Md. Jakir Hossain, Momotaz Begum and Md. Shahin Alam. Article: Multilingual OCR (MOCR): An Approach to Classify Words to Languages. International Journal of Computer Applications 32(1):46-53, October 2011.
      </li>
  </ol>
</p><br><br>

<h2> Paper Abstracts:</h2>

<p>
<h4> [CP02] An Integrated Interconnection Network Model for Large-Scale Performance Prediction</h4>

Interconnection network is a critical component of high-performance computing architecture and application co-design. For many scientific applications, the increasing communication complexity poses a serious concern as it may hinder the scaling properties of these applications on novel architectures. It is apparent that a scalable, efficient, and accurate interconnect model would be essential for performance evaluation studies. In this paper, we present an interconnect model for predicting the performance of large-scale applications on high-performance architectures. In particular, we present a sufficiently detailed interconnect model for Crays Gemini 3-D torus network. The model has been integrated with an implementation of the Message-Passing Interface (MPI) that can mimic most of its functions with packet-level accuracy on the target platform. Extensive experiments show that our integrated model provides good accuracy for predicting the network behavior, while at the same time allowing for good parallel scaling performance.

</p>


<p>
<h4> [CP01] Toward PrimoGENI Constellation for Distributed At-Scale Hybrid Network Test</h4>

PrimoGENI provides a GENI aggregate interface through which experimenters can launch large-scale network experiments on GENI resources consisting of both simulated network and real instances of network applications directly running on either virtual or physical machines. Real network traffic generated by the network applications can be introduced into the simulated network in real time and be subjected to proper delays and losses according to the simulated network conditions. To leverage the previous PrimoGENI prototype activities, PrimoGENI Constellation is a newly launched project, which will focus specifically on facilitating distributed at-scale hybrid experiments for real-world high-impact applications. In this paper, we provide an overview of the major achievements of PrimoGENI, and more importantly, discuss the ongoing efforts in PrimoGENI Constellation aiming to achieve the full potential of the hybrid network experiment approach. The main thrusts of PrimoGENI Constellation include: 1) supporting at-scale network experiments potentially distributed on different types of GENI resources in accordance with the GENI experiment workflow, 2) focusing on target applications supporting prominent and high-impact future Internet research, and 3) building the user community through extensive education and research training, and online archives of experiment results and user experiences.
</p>



<p> 
<h4>[Jnl01] Random Early Discard (RED-AQM) Performance Analysis in Terms of TCP Variants and Network Parameters: Instability in High-Bandwidth-Delay Network</h4>

Conventional congestion control methods (e.g. DROP TAIL) discards all received packets after the queue is full moreover results in low-network performance. To address this problem, RED was proposed to improve the performance of TCP connections. As a queue management mechanism, it drops packets in the considered router buffer to adjust the network traffic behavior according to the queue size. In application, TCP Variants (Reno, NewReno, Vegas, Fack and Sack1) show oscillatory curve of packet reception if RED is considered for queuing, besides, some variants out performs in receiving packets over different network parameters that this paper analyzes and finds out. However, an increase in link capacity (with the resulting increase of per-flow bandwidth) will cause significant degradation in TCP’s performance, irrespective of the queuing scheme used. Hence the network is prone to instability with the rise in the number of High-bandwidth-delay product that is also attended to in this paper.
</p>



<p>
<h4> [Jnl04] Multilingual OCR (MOCR): An Approach to Classify Words to Languages </h4>

There are immense efforts to design a complete OCR for most of the world’s leading languages, however, multilingual documents either of handwritten or of printed form. As a united attempt, Unicode based OCRs were studied mostly with some positive outcomes, despite the fact that a large character set slows down the recognition significantly. In this paper, we come out with a method to classify words to a language as the word segmentation is complete. For the purpose, we identified the characteristics of writings of several languages and utilized projecting method combined with some other feature extraction methods. In addition, this paper intends a modified statistical approach to correct the skewness before processing a segmented document. The proposed procedure, evaluated for a collection of both handwritten and printed documents, came with excellent outcomes in assigning words to languages.

</p>


</div>
