---
published: true
---
## Landing your dream job
I have interviewed at almost 10 of the top companies. The interview structure varies greatly by company. For example apple 

### Resume Phase
You are trying to build the right resume that will get you the interview calls. Best thing is to start with a template from Harvard/MIT/Gayle Laakmann Software engineer resume and go from there. 

1. Resume should be 1 page and 1 page only. 
1. Keep their design. Don’t customize design, waste of time.
1. Reorganize items to best represent your profile.
1. Use keywords related to a job/ category of jobs.
1. Use action words in describing projects or responsibilities.
1. List all of your projects, Class projects or Research projects (1 liner).
1. If you have never done projects it’s time to do some.
1. Get a friend/two (NOT EVERYBODY) to review your resume preferably someone in the industry.

## Apply
Goal is to get as many as possible relevant(related to your background) calls.
- If you don’t know know RubyOnRails, don’t write it on your resume. You should have some familiarity with every technology you write in your resume
- Read the job description couple of times and see if they are looking for skills similar to you. Apply if you like it.
- Apply at what u want to be, NOT who will call u.
- If the job doesn’t need expertise you can apply, but there will be tough competition.
- Learn about ATS Applicant Tracking System.
- You will get calls, might have to wait couple of months
- Make applying a habit. 20/week. NOT 100/day.
- Dig into fortune top tech companies and apply from their site

## Rejection Emails
- Rejections are mostly generated by an automated system
 - Generally a ATS system
 - Filter based rejection with keywords
  - Some use workday software to filter
- This auto-rejection emails are worthless. Still keep applying at the same company, similar job. Some recruiter will dig through eventually.


## Networking
LinkedIn helps getting Interviews
- Make friends with recruiters. Occasionally send thank you to a selected few when they accept your request.
- Like, Comment relevant Recuiter/ Field Expert posts.
- Post/Share interesting things several times a week.
- Update your entire profile. See how big guys write their profile. Describe every project. Lookup a HP/director.
- Reach out to recruiters.
- Introduce yourself
- Write something personal, say i see what you are posting and love what you are doing
- Find a job at their company, mention it
- They get so many msgs they don’t wanna do the matchmaking.
- Occasionally ask questions about their process 
- They will help you out.

## Phone Interview
- Structure of the Phone Interview
 - Few minutes about the job and the company
 - Solve a programming on hackerrank/ googledocs/ codepair
 - You can ask questions
 
- Take notes during interview
- Talk about your solution, the interviewer will ask questions, change the assumptions
- Talk about edge cases
- Know the time complexity
- Cant solve it? Think of a brute-force solution
 - How can you eliminate /reduce total execution?

**Practice demo interview with peers on Pramp or similar sites.
Your programming practice, Leetcode, data structures will come handy now.**

### Failed phone interview?
Maybe you didn’t quite solve the problem or the solution is not optimal. So the interviewer decided you need more time, MORE PRACTICE. Next-
- Learn optimal solution to a problem.
 - No shame in it, that guy also studied the same.
 - They didn’t invent KMP or Shortest path algorithm 
- Think of alternative ways to solve a problem
- Think if the constraints are altered
- Learn to code in white-board, no-IDE environment
- Use pen-paper (not a pencil) to sketch.
- No time to erase.

## Dealing with Failure
<pre>
             it makes you stronger. ”
“If something doesn’t break you, 
</pre>

Always remember this.

Here is how it makes you stronger-
- In someway or the other
- Every problem they asked, learn optimal solution to it.
- Learn OPTIMAL solution to similar problems.
- Try NOT to make the same mistake again.

## Prepare
- Make a plan to go through the essential DS, Algo
- https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/top-algorithms-and-data-structures-for-competitive-programming/
- Solve Leetcode TOP INTERVIEW QUESTIONS(140 approx.), Do Easy, Medium, before anything else.

#### String / Array
1. Anagram/ Palindrome, from linked list or string.
1. String search, KMP Search and Boyer-Moore Search
1. Reverse an array without affecting special characters
1.  All Possible Palindromic Partitions
1. Count triplets with sum smaller than a given value
1. Convert array into Zig-Zag fashion
1. Generate all possible sorted arrays from alternate elements of two given sorted arrays
1. Pythagorean Triplet in an array
1. Length of the largest subarray with contiguous elements
1. Find the smallest positive integer value that cannot be represented as sum of any subset of a given array
1. Smallest subarray with sum greater than a given value
1.  Stock Buy Sell to Maximize Profit

#### Linked List
1. Insertion/Deletion of a node in Linked List (under some constraints)
  1. Insert
  1. Delete certain matching value
  1. Reverse entire list or part of the linked list
    1. Check if a list is palindrome*
  1. Find loops
1. Two Pointer
  1. Compare two strings represented as linked lists
  1. Add Two Numbers Represented By Linked Lists
  1. Merge two sorted Linked List.

#### Tree / Binary Search Tree
1. BFS, DFS recursively
1. BFS DFS iteratively
1. Find Minimum Depth of a Binary Tree
1. Maximum Path Sum in a Binary Tree
1. Check if a given array can represent Preorder Traversal of Binary Search Tree
1. Check whether a binary tree is a full binary tree or not
1. Bottom View Binary Tree
1. Print Nodes in Top View of Binary Tree
1. Remove nodes on root to leaf paths of length < K
1. Lowest Common Ancestor in a Binary Search Tree
1. Check if a binary tree is subtree of another binary tree
1. Reverse alternate levels of a perfect binary tree

## Sorting And Searching
1. Binary Search
1. Search an element in a sorted and rotated array
1. Bubble Sort
1. Insertion Sort
1. Merge Sort
1. Heap Sort (Binary Heap)
1. Quick Sort
1. Interpolation Search
1. Find Kth Smallest/Largest Element In Unsorted Array
1. Given a sorted array and a number x, find the pair in array whose sum is closest to x

## Graph
1. Breadth First Search (BFS) with Queue and recursively
  1. Do Island perimeter, robot movement simulation
1. Depth First Search (DFS) with Queue and recursively
  1. To detect cycle in a Graph **Union Find**
1. Shortest Path from source to all vertices **Dijkstra** 
1. Minimum Spanning tree **Prim** / **Kruskal** 
1. Building graph from a sring or some representation. 

## Prepare / Dynamic Programming
1. Longest Common Subsequence
1. Longest Increasing Subsequence
1. Edit Distance
1. Minimum Partition
1. Ways to Cover a Distance
1. Longest Path In Matrix
1. Subset Sum Problem
1. Optimal Strategy for a Game
1. 0-1 Knapsack Problem
1. Boolean Parenthesization Problem

## Prepare / Number Theory
1. Modular Exponentiation
1. Modular multiplicative inverse
1. Primality Test | Set 2 (Fermat Method)
1. Basic and Extended Euclidean algorithms
1. Chinese remainder theorem

## Prepare / BIT Manipulation
1. Count total set bits
1. number occurs once, every other appears twice. Find the number.
1. Maximum Subarray XOR
1. Magic Number
1. Sum of bit differences among all pairs
1. Swap All Odds And Even Bits
1. Find the element that appears once
1. Binary representation of a given number
1. Count total set bits in all numbers from 1 to n
1. Rotate bits of a number
1. Count number of bits to be flipped to convert A to B
1. Find Next Sparse Number

# Hell Yeah, Onsite Call! 
1. Time to learn system design.
  1. Design twitter, tinyurl, messenger,...
  1. GoF Design Patterns
  1. Focus on building scalable, load balanced system
  1. Low latency applications
    1. Caching, CDN
  1. Failure tolerant systems
  1. Partitioning, Replication
  1. Integrate design pattern on small components
1. Company wise Problem Solving
  1. Top leetcode problems in last 2 years
  1. Glassdoor reported problems ordered by date(latest)

## Failed Onsite??
- Were they looking for a particular skill set/language?
  - You don't know it you don't get it. GET OVER IT.
- Keep applying, keep interviewing. Don't give up.
  - The process itself is a test.
- Made Mistakes? 
  - Go back a couple of slides, Dealing with failures
